THIS IS A BINDING AGREEMENT ("AGREEMENT") FOR THE ACCOMPANYING RAIMA 
INC. ("RAIMA") SOFTWARE PRODUCT(S) AND ACCOMPANYING DOCUMENTATION, 
INCLUDING ON-LINE, READ-ME OR HELP FILES,  IF ANY (COLLECTIVELY, THE 
"PRODUCT").  BY DOWNLOADING OR INSTALLING THE PRODUCT, YOU AGREE ON 
BEHALF OF YOURSELF AND YOUR EMPLOYER, IF ANY, TO BE BOUND BY THE TERMS 
AND CONDITIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT. 

IF YOU DO NOT ACCEPT THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT, YOU MAY 
NOT INSTALL, DOWNLOAD OR USE THE PRODUCT AND SHOULD CLICK "DO NOT 
ACCEPT." 

BY ACCEPTING THIS AGREEMENT, YOU REPRESENT AND WARRANT THAT YOU HAVE 
BEEN SO AUTHORIZED BY YOUR EMPLOYER, IF ANY, HAVE READ AND UNDERSTOOD 
THIS AGREEMENT, AND HAVE SOUGHT OR WAIVED THE RIGHT TO SEEK LEGAL 
COUNSEL PRIOR TO ACCEPTING THIS AGREEMENT.

Hereinafter "You" shall mean you and your employer, if any.

1. Limited License: Subject to the terms and conditions of this 
Agreement, Raima grants You a nonexclusive, nontransferable, non-
assignable, non-sublicensable, limited right and license to install, 
download and execute the object code only of the Product for internal 
use and development purposes only, provided that such internal use and 
development will be restricted to support the development of  Your 
Application(s) (as defined below) and that the Product will not be used 
or disclosed for production, sale or distribution to third parties.  You 
may (i) install the Product on one (1) computer only, (ii) make one (1) 
copy of the Product for back-up and archival purposes, provided that all 
Raima proprietary and other legal notices are reproduced in such copy 
and (iii) physically transfer the Product from one computer to another, 
provided that the Product is installed on only one (1) computer at a 
time and retains all proprietary and legal notices.

2.  Licensed Application(s): The Application(s) may not be a database 
management system product, a database query product, or a database 
revision product, in each case that could be used to commercially 
compete with any Raima product.

3. Restrictions:  You may not reproduce, market, sell or distribute the 
executable components of the Product, with or without modifications, to 
any third parties, either alone or as an embedded component of the 
Application(s), without first executing a separate written royalty or 
fee bearing license agreement with Raima upon mutually agreeable terms 
and conditions.  You may not, and You agree that you will prohibit Your 
employees, contractors and agents from: (i) selling, transferring, 
assigning or distributing the Product; (ii) modifying the Product; (iii) 
reverse engineering, disassembling, or decompiling the Product, or 
otherwise attempting to discover the source code thereof; (iv) 
sublicensing the Product or using the Product for commercial time-
sharing or service bureau use, or otherwise renting or leasing the 
Product; (v) removing, obscuring or altering any copyright, trademark or 
other proprietary or legal notices on or in the Product; and (vi) 
disclosing the results of any performance or benchmark tests run on the 
Product without Raima's prior written consent.  You may obtain and 
modify the source code of the Product only by executing a separate 
internal development agreement with Raima.

4. No Technical Support: Raima is not obligated under this Agreement to 
provide any technical support, phone support, updates or upgrades to You 
for the Product.  Technical support for the Product may be available 
from Raima under a separate support agreement.

5. Updates and Duplicate Copies: If the Product is identified by Raima 
as an "Update," You will promptly replace all existing copies of the 
prior version of the Product being updated with such Update and destroy 
all copies so replaced.  

6. DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY.  RAIMA AND ITS THIRD PARTY SUPPLIERS,IF ANY, 
PROVIDE THE PRODUCT "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND EITHER EXPRESS, 
IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO RAIMA THE IMPLIED 
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE 
AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  RAIMA WILL NOT BE LIABLE OR IN ANY WAY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE COMMERCIAL SUCCESS OR FAILURE OF THE APPLICATION(S), OR OF ANY 
ENHANCEMENT THEREOF.  RAIMA MAKES NO WARRANTIES CONCERNING ANY THIRD 
PARTY PRODUCT.
Should the Product prove defective, You, and not Raima, assume the 
entire cost of any service and repair.  This disclaimer of warranty 
constitutes an essential part of this agreement. 

7. LIMITATION OF REMEDIES.  IN NO EVENT WILL RAIMA OR ITS THIRD PARTY 
SUPPLIERS, IF ANY, BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT OR INDIRECT DAMAGES OR OTHER 
RELIEF ARISING OUT OF YOUR USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE PRODUCT 
INCLUDING, BY WAY OF ILLUSTRATION AND NOT LIMITATION, LOST PROFITS, LOST 
BUSINESS OR LOST OPPORTUNITY, OR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, 
INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL OR EXEMPLARY DAMAGES, INCLUDING LEGAL FEES, 
ARISING OUT OF SUCH USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE PRODUCT, EVEN IF RAIMA, 
ITS THIRD PARTY SUPPLIERS OR AN AUTHORIZED LICENSOR, DEALER, DISTRIBUTOR 
OR SUPPLIER HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES, OR FOR 
ANY CLAIM BY ANY OTHER PARTY.

8. Indemnity: You agrees to defend, indemnify and hold Raima and its 
directors, officers, shareholders, employees and agents harmless from 
and against any and all penalties, damages, costs, judgments and any 
other expenses including, but not limited to, reasonable attorneys' 
fees, in-house counsel costs and appellate fees incurred in connection 
with Your sale, distribution or use of the Product.

9. Proprietary Rights: Your rights in the Product are limited to those 
specifically granted in this Agreement.  Raima and Raima's third party 
suppliers, as is the case, shall at all times own all of the 
intellectual and other proprietary rights associated with the Product, 
and retain sole right, title, and interest therein.

10. Term and Termination: This Agreement will continue in full force and 
effect unless and until sooner terminated pursuant to the terms hereof.  
This Agreement will automatically terminate if You breach any material 
obligation under this Agreement.  Either Raima or You may terminate this 
Agreement upon written notice to the other party effective upon receipt 
of such notice.  Upon termination of this Agreement: (i) all rights and 
licenses granted to You herein will automatically and immediately 
terminate and You will immediately cease using the Product; and (ii) You 
will promptly destroy any copies of the Product, including back-up 
copies. 

11. Disputes: This Agreement will be governed by the laws of the State 
of Washington, without reference to conflicts of laws principles. The 
United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of 
Goods will not apply to this Agreement.  Any dispute arising out of or 
related to this Agreement will be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction 
and venue of the Washington State courts of King County, Washington (or, 
in case of federal jurisdiction, the United States District Court 
located in the State of Washington).

12. Export Restrictions: You agree to observe and obey all export 
regulations and rules relating to the export of the Product.  

13. U.S. Government End Users.  The Product is a "commercial item," as 
that term is defined at 48 C.F.R. 2.101 (Oct. 1995), consisting of 
"commercial computer software" and "commercial computer software 
documentation," as such terms are used in 48 C.F.R. 12.212 (Sept. 1995).  
Consistent with 48 C.F.R. 12.212 and 48 C.F.R. 227.7202-1 through 
227.7202-4 (June 1995), all U.S. Government End Users acquire only those 
rights in the Product that are provided by this Agreement

14. Entire Agreement: This Agreement sets forth the entire agreement 
between Raima and You with respect to the subject matter hereof and 
supersedes all prior agreements, understandings and representations 
between the parties concerning the subject matter hereof

15. Miscellaneous: The terms of this Agreement may not be amended or 
modified, and no Addendum may be executed, except in a writing executed 
by an authorized representative of each party.  In the event that any 
provision of this Agreement is held to be invalid or is waived, all 
other provisions of this Agreement will be deemed severable and 
enforced.  You may not assign, transfer, or delegate any of Your rights 
or obligations under this Agreement, whether by merger, acquisition, 
operation of law or otherwise, without the prior written consent of 
Raima.

--Revised: June, 2010
